Q1.
1NF
The program is already in it's first normal form
we can say that because
-Attribute name should be unique
-Each column contains single value no seperated by commas so that ensures 
Atomicity
-Unified Data Type-Consistent Data types
2NF
We need to ensure to partial dependencies

3NF

-To eliminate any transitive dependencies we need to make sure that that one attribute 
should not be retrievable form two or more places

EmployeeID	EmployeeName	DepartmentID	DepartmentName	ManagerID	ManagerName
101	John Doe	1	IT	201	Alice Smith

in the example below we can find the department name from department id itself

Q2.Bonus

Q3. What are the primary keys and foreign keys in a relational database, and how do they establish relationships between tables?
Primary Keys uniquely identify records within a tables
while foreign keys establish a relationships between
tables by referencing the primary keysof another tables

Q4.Explain the ACID properties in the context of database transactions.
Acid Property ensures that transactions are processed reliably,accurately
-Atomicity-It states that every transaction is treated as 
single unit of work.It anything crashes then everything rollsback
Atomicity prevents trasactions leaving from the database incomplete
-Consistency-Database reamins consistent before and after the transactions
-Isolation-Each transaction should be independent form each other
so as to avoid any corruption
-Durability-Durability ensures that if a transaction
is completed it gets stored in non volatile storage


Q5.Question 5: Describe the concept of indexing in a database. How does indexing improve query performance?
Indexing used to improve the speed of data retreival operations
Most effiecient indexing algorithms wil lmake sure the most 
effiecient retreival operation and reduce 

Question 6: Explain the concept of concurrency control, deadlocks in a multi-user database environment.
concurrency control mechanisms ensure data consistency and prevent conflicts in a multi-user database environment by coordinating the execution of transactions. However, they can also introduce the risk of deadlocks, which occur when transactions are waiting indefinitely for each other. Effective management of concurrency control and deadlocks is essential for maintaining the reliability and performance of database systems in a concurrent environment.


Question 7: Read about Database sharding and explain couple of real time examples where, why, how it this concept is used.?
Sharding is a technique for distribute data or partition data horizontally
Each shard contains subset of Data